Custom endpoints should be under `/extensions` (#264)
Materials-Consortia/OPTIMADE: optimade.rst

There MAY be multiple entry listing endpoints, depending on how many types of entries an implementation provides.
Specific standard entry types are specified in section `Entry list`_.

The API implementation MAY provide other entry types than the ones standardized in this specification.
Such entry types MUST be prefixed by a database-provider-specific prefix (i.e., the resource objects' :property:`type` value should start with the database-provider-specific prefix, e.g., :property:`type` = :val:`_exmpl_workflows`).
Each custom entry type SHOULD be served at a corresponding entry listing endpoint under the base URL with the same name (i.e., equal to the resource objects' :property:`type` value, e.g., :endpoint:`/_exmpl_workflows`).

> It is RECOMMENDED to align with the OPTIMADE API specification practice of using a plural for entry resource types and entry type endpoints.

Author: This is a good point. I think this is sort of already in the spec, but it's never expressed explicitly. And definitely never with a MUST requirement.

Do you mind if we create a new PR for this additional explicit requirement and merge this, or do you feel it is important enough to get it in here as well now? If @giovannipizzi or @rartino is ready to re-approve right away with this addition, it's fine for me to keep add it here.

> It is RECOMMENDED to align with the OPTIMADE API specification practice of using a plural for entry resource types and entry type endpoints.

Author: I take @rartino's thumbs up as a "go" for the addition - 2 sec.

> It is RECOMMENDED to align with the OPTIMADE API specification practice of using a plural for entry resource types and entry type endpoints.

Reviewer: Well, it was meant as "I'm here". But if @giovannipizzi isn't, we won't approve this tonight. On the other hand, we have other release-blocking PRs still waiting, so it is hardly critical.

> It is RECOMMENDED to align with the OPTIMADE API specification practice of using a plural for entry resource types and entry type endpoints.

Author: So close.. oh well. Maybe I should add something saying like "add entry listing info endpoints for custom entry listing endpoints" as well? Although I feel were starting to reiterate the obvious, but I don't know?

> It is RECOMMENDED to align with the OPTIMADE API specification practice of using a plural for entry resource types and entry type endpoints.

Reviewer: Go ahead and merge while you can :D.

> It is RECOMMENDED to align with the OPTIMADE API specification practice of using a plural for entry resource types and entry type endpoints.

Reviewer 2: I agree that its obvious, my thinking was that a provider probably won't start adding custom endpoints until they have a working server, so by the time they come back and look at how to do that, they've forgotten all about the rest of the spec.

> It is RECOMMENDED to align with the OPTIMADE API specification practice of using a plural for entry resource types and entry type endpoints.

Author: Maybe for another PR if relevant.

There MAY be multiple entry listing endpoints, depending on how many types of entries an implementation provides.
Specific standard entry types are specified in section `Entry list`_.

The API implementation MAY provide other entry types than the ones standardized in this specification.
Such entry types MUST be prefixed by a database-provider-specific prefix (i.e., the resource objects' :property:`type` value should start with the database-provider-specific prefix, e.g., :property:`type` = :val:`_exmpl_workflows`).
Each custom entry type SHOULD be served at a corresponding entry listing endpoint under the base URL with the same name (i.e., equal to the resource objects' :property:`type` value, e.g., :endpoint:`/_exmpl_workflows`).
It is RECOMMENDED to align with the OPTIMADE API specification practice of using a plural for entry resource types and entry type endpoints.

> Any custom entry listing endpoint MUST also be added to the :property:`available\_endpoints` and :property:`entry\_types\_by\_format` attributes of the `Base Info Endpoint`_.

Reviewer 3: ... unless it is a hidden entry listing endpoint :)

Author: Sure, but what would be the point of this? Then maybe just don't publish the data in that endpoint, or put it behind authentication?

Reviewer 3: It's just a hypothetical example of the simplest security-through-obscurity solution. I'm not suggesting the specs should do anything about it, it's just that not listing a custom entry listing endpoint in those attributes effectively renders it hidden.

Author: Sure. However, I think this is bad practice (security-through-obscurity). And the spec "agrees" with the wording here and usage of `MUST`.
But you're saying you want to have this practice be available for providers?

Reviewer 3: Of course this is a bad practice and I'm not advocating for that – I meant this merely as a joke.

Author: Ah, sorry for the misunderstanding 😅

There MAY be multiple entry listing endpoints, depending on how many types of entries an implementation provides.
Specific standard entry types are specified in section `Entry list`_.

> The API implementation MAY provide other entry types than the ones standardized in this specification, but such entry types MUST be situated either under the :endpoint:`extensions` endpoint or be prefixed by a database-provider-specific prefix if situated at the root of the base URL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The API implementation MAY provide other entry types than the ones standardized in this specification, but such entry types MUST be prefixed by a database-provider-specific prefix. Each such custom entry type SHOULD have a corresponding entry listing endpoint under the base URL with the same name (including the database-provider-specific prefix). Other custom endpoints, which are not entry listing endpoints for database-provider-specific entry types, should be situated under the :endpoint:`extensions`.
```

Author: Right, so indeed you want the provider-specific-prefix as part of the entry resource `type` value.
That makes sense, since we're matching the endpoint names with the resource `type`s.

However, it seems you're also adding a restriction that one cannot serve entry listing endpoints under the `/extensions` endpoint?

Reviewer: I mean, not for anything you use as "normal" entries--why would you want to do that? But IMO we really could leave out the whole last sentence.

Author: I wouldn't want to try and guess the reasons behind use cases, but instead simply not restrict unnecessarily.

In other words, I don't know :) But adding a restriction seems wrong.
Removing the sentence will leave some ambiguitiy, hence my initial PR.
But I think instead we can simply summarize by stating that _any_ custom endpoint, whatever it may hold, and no matter whether it's placed at the root or under `/extensions`, it should be prefixed with the provider-specific prefix? Or is that also too much of a restriction?

For entry endpoints, the `type`s of the served resources should also be prefixed, and otherwise follow the naming conventions laid out by the specification (not detailing this more, but hoping that developers read and understand the implications of the spec), e.g., endpoint name and resource types are the same.

Reviewer: Is it not clear from what I suggested to write that `type='...'` and endpoint name need to match?

We can never ensure all developers read and understand the specifications, but isn't that what validators is for?

So maybe change the last sentence to?: "Other custom endpoints should be situated under the :endpoint:`extensions`".

But I have to admit I no longer see what you are seeing here, so maybe I am missing something. There is a whole other section that explains that you can put whatever you like under `/extensions`. What is it that needs clarification about the `/extensions` endpoint here after we have carefully directed people to put their entry listing endpoints directly under the root?

Author: > But I have to admit I no longer see what you are seeing here, so maybe I am missing something. There is a whole other section that explains that you can put whatever you like under `/extensions`. What is it that needs clarification about the `/extensions` endpoint here after we have carefully directed people to put their entry listing endpoints directly under the root?

That was my initial (mis)understanding of this. That custom endpoints could _only_ be situated under `/extensions`, since this is what is most explicitly written in the specification.
That one could add custom entry listing endpoints at the "root" was rather new to me.
I initially wanted to clarify my understanding of it, and it was argued by you and @merkys that it's fine to add "root" entry endpoints as well, as long as the database-provider-specific prefix is added.
So this PR now tries to clarify this extra place to place very specific custom endpoints.
